# Research-Project
# Suicide becomes an unavoidable issue for the modern society. Every year 800000 peoples loses their lives worldwide. Uses of smartphone has rapidly increased, and people are interacting with others using social media and other platforms has increased as a result. These social media data can be use as raw data to perform sentient analysis to understand the sentiment. In recent few years sentiment analysis has gain so much of popularity. Many studies have been done already to analyze and understand sentiment behind a statement. And there are still many research in progress to analyze the sentiment. Detecting sentiments of these peoples is a new challenge for many researchers. It can be achieved by analyzing their statements made by the victims before they commit any suicidal actions, with the help of machine learning, natural language processing etc. In this project, we have used a dataset which contains 232074 unique values collected posts from “Suicide Watch” and “depression” subreddits of the Reddit platform, to develop different machine learning model to analyze the sentiments of these data. We developed several types of machine learning model to compare the accuracy and find out the best and suitable algorithm for the project of detecting people's sentiment. The accuracy we able to be achieved, SVM 57.24%, Naive Bayes (Gaussian) 54.69%, Random Forest67.67%, Decision tree 70.95. Along with these algorithms we have also developed different versions of Naïve Bayes model algorithm where Naïve Bayes (Bernoulli), Naïve Bayes (Multinomial) and Naïve Bayes (Gaussian) able to achieve an accuracy of 49.92%, 51.65%, 54.69% accordingly. Here we have found that Decision Tree is providing best accuracy compared to another model algorithm. In addition, among all the versions of Naive Bayes model algorithms Bayes (Gaussian) is providing the best accuracy
# Keywords—Sentiment Analysis, Suicide attempts, Decision Tree algorithm, Machine Learning, Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, Naive Bayes, Deep Learning
